Methods
The character data was largely taken from the dataset used by Foffa et al. (2022). The Pterosaurs and Lagerpetids were specifically picked out, for a total of 21 species. Along with these species, 4 species were added from recent literature (SOURCES), making for a total of 25 species in the character matrix used. Age data was collected for all species, consisting of a maximum, minimum and average age. To anchor the tree the youngest possible age of the youngest occurring species (Rhamphorhynchus muensteri, 149.2 Ma) was set to zero and all other ages calibrated from this point. 

To make the phylogenetic analysis the BDMM’ package, a modified version of the BDMM package (Kühnert et al., 2016), in BEAST 2 (Bouckaert et al., 2019) was used. Due to compatibility issues, BEAST version 2.6.7 was used instead of the most recent version. In the analysis a strict clock model was used. For the starting tip dates of the species the average between the age limits for each species was used. This was combined with a uniform prior with the age limits as boundaries to allow the best fitting age to be found. Further exponential priors with a mean of 1 were used for Birth rate, Clock rate, Death rate, Gamma shape, Migration rate and Removal probability. An exponential prior was also used for the Sampling rate, but with a mean of 0.1. Lastly uniform distributions were used for the Proportion invariant and the Origin time. For the proportion invariant a distribution between 0 and 1 was used, while for the origin time a distribution between 95 and 250 Ma (After the calibration age) with a starting time of 150 Ma was chosen. This range was chosen as the oldest taxa has a maximum age of 88,96 Ma. 



References
Bouckaert, R., Vaughan, T. G., Barido-Sottani, J., Duchêne, S., Fourment, M., Gavryushkina, A., Heled, J., Jones, G., Kühnert, D., Maio, N. D., Matschiner, M., Mendes, F. K., Müller, N. F., Ogilvie, H. A., Plessis, L. du, Popinga, A., Rambaut, A., Rasmussen, D., Siveroni, I., … Drummond, A. J. (2019). BEAST 2.5: An advanced software platform for Bayesian evolutionary analysis. PLOS Computational Biology, 15(4), e1006650. https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pcbi.1006650
Foffa, D., Dunne, E. M., Nesbitt, S. J., Butler, R. J., Fraser, N. C., Brusatte, S. L., Farnsworth, A., Lunt, D. J., Valdes, P. J., Walsh, S., & Barrett, P. M. (2022). Scleromochlus and the early evolution of Pterosauromorpha. Nature, 610(7931), Article 7931. https://doi.org/10.1038/s41586-022-05284-x
Kühnert, D., Stadler, T., Vaughan, T. G., & Drummond, A. J. (2016). Phylodynamics with Migration: A Computational Framework to Quantify Population Structure from Genomic Data. Molecular Biology and Evolution, 33(8), 2102–2116. https://doi.org/10.1093/molbev/msw064
